Add Vulcanexus Cloud use case (#101)
eProsima/DDS-Router: docs/rst/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud.rst

.. include:: ../exports/alias.include

.. _vulcanexus_cloud:

################
Vulcanexus Cloud
################

*Vulcanexus* is an extended *ROS2* distribution provided by *eProsima* which includes additional tools for an improved
user and development experience, such as *Fast-DDS-Monitor* for monitoring the health of DDS networks, or *micro-ROS*,
a framework aimed at optimizing and extending *ROS2* toolkit to microcontroller-based devices.

Apart from plain LAN-to-LAN communication, Cloud environments such as container-oriented platforms have also been
present throughout the |ddsrouter| design phase. In this walk-through example, we will set up both a *Kubernetes*
(|k8s|) network and local environment in order to establish communication between a pair of ROS nodes, one sending
messages from a LAN (talker) and another one (listener) receiving them in the Cloud.

> 

Author: :+1:

Local setup
===========
The local instance of |ddsrouter| (local router) only requires to have a :ref:`Simple Participant <user_manual_participants_simple>`,
and a :ref:`WAN Participant <user_manual_participants_wan>` that will play the client role in the discovery process of
remote participants (see `Discovery Server <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/discovery/discovery_server.html>`_).

> After having acknowledged each other’s existence through (multicast) `Simple Discovery <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/discovery/simple.html>`_,

Author: :+1:

> the local participant will start receiving messages published by the talker ROS node, and will then forward them to the

Author: :+1:

WAN participant. Following, these messages will be sent through a UDP tunnel with another WAN participant hosted on a

> |k8s| pod as destination.

Author: :+1:

Following is a representation of the above-described scenario:

> .. figure:: /rst/figures/vulcanexus_local.png

Author: :+1:

Local router
------------
The configuration file used by the local router will be the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/local-ddsrouter.yml
    :language: yaml

Note that the simple participant will be receiving messages sent in DDS domain ``0``. Also note that, due to the choice
of UDP as transport protocol, a listening address with the LAN public IP address needs to be specified for the local WAN
participant, even when behaving as client in the participant discovery process. Make sure that the given port is
reachable from outside this local network by properly configuring port forwarding in your Internet router device.
The connection address points to the remote WAN participant deployed in the |k8s| cluster.

To launch the local router from within a Vulcanexus Docker image, execute the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run -it --net=host -v local-ddsrouter.yml:/tmp/local-ddsrouter.yml ubuntu-vulcanexus:galactic -r "ddsrouter -c /tmp/local-ddsrouter.yml"

Talker
------

> ROS2 demo nodes is not installed in Vulcanexus distribution by default, but one can easily create a new Docker image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ROS 2 demo nodes is not installed in Vulcanexus distribution by default, but one can easily create a new Docker image
```

Author: :+1:

.. include:: ../exports/alias.include

.. _vulcanexus_cloud:

################
Vulcanexus Cloud
################

*Vulcanexus* is an extended *ROS 2* distribution provided by *eProsima* which includes additional tools for an improved
user and development experience, such as *Fast-DDS-Monitor* for monitoring the health of DDS networks, or *micro-ROS*,
a framework aimed at optimizing and extending *ROS 2* toolkit to microcontroller-based devices.

Apart from plain LAN-to-LAN communication, Cloud environments such as container-oriented platforms have also been
present throughout the |ddsrouter| design phase. In this walk-through example, we will set up both a *Kubernetes*
(|k8s|) network and local environment in order to establish communication between a pair of ROS nodes, one sending
messages from a LAN (talker) and another one (listener) receiving them in the Cloud. This will be accomplished by having

> a |ddsrouter| instance at each side of the communication.

Reviewer 2: We decided not to link it.

> .. figure:: /rst/figures/ddsrouter_overview_wan.png

Reviewer 2: Nice picture :+1: 
I would suggest to use it in order to explain the whole scenario that is being explained in this section. Something fast like "we have a local ... and want to communicte with a cloud k8s cluster ..."

Local setup
===========
The local instance of |ddsrouter| (local router) only requires to have a :ref:`Simple Participant <user_manual_participants_simple>`,
and a :ref:`WAN Participant <user_manual_participants_wan>` that will play the client role in the discovery process of

> remote participants (see `Discovery Server <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/discovery/discovery_server.html>`_).

Author: :+1:

After having acknowledged each other’s existence through `Simple DDS discovery mechanism <https://fast-dds.docs.eprosima.com/en/latest/fastdds/discovery/simple.html>`_
(mutlicast communcation), the local participant will start receiving messages published by the ROS 2 talker node, and
will then forward them to the WAN participant. Following, these messages will be sent to another participant hosted on a
|k8s| cluster to which it connects via WAN communication over UDP/IP.

Following is a representation of the above-described scenario:

> .. figure:: /rst/figures/vulcanexus_local.png

Reviewer 2: NIT:
Maybe this figure could be misunderstood because it seems like ROS2 Talker and Router are in different LANs. Could those squares be united? Or maybe set those squares as "Hosts" and then a big one saying LAN.

Author: :+1:

> .. figure:: /rst/figures/vulcanexus_local.png

Reviewer 2: Not sure about term `UDP Tunnel`. Please, ask to more experienced people.

Author: Not sure about this one. Stream, connection?

Author: I went for UDP data transmission.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a note that this configuration also is possible for networks using Discovery Server, not just multicast one (add a link to ROS2 Discovery Server Example). But just as a comment, do not get much deeper here.

Author: I think that might be misleading, the reader can learn in the cloud router section how to do that.
And I think it is clear that both options are possible in LAN, it's just easier to use multicast though that's not an option in the cluster.

Local router
------------
The configuration file used by the local router will be the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/local-ddsrouter.yaml
    :language: yaml

Note that the simple participant will be receiving messages sent in DDS domain ``0``. Also note that, due to the choice
of UDP as transport protocol, a listening address with the LAN public IP address needs to be specified for the local WAN
participant, even when behaving as client in the participant discovery process. Make sure that the given port is
reachable from outside this local network by properly configuring port forwarding in your Internet router device.

> The connection address points to the remote WAN participant deployed in the |k8s| cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The connection address points to the remote WAN participant deployed in the |k8s| cluster.
For further details on how to configure WAN communication, check section :ref:`<add link ref in wan_configuration UDP port forwarding example, or some other subsection of wan configuration>` .
```

Author: :+1:

To launch the local router from within a Vulcanexus Docker image, execute the following:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker run -it --net=host -v local-ddsrouter.yaml:/tmp/local-ddsrouter.yaml ubuntu-vulcanexus:galactic -r "ddsrouter -c /tmp/local-ddsrouter.yaml"

Talker
------
*ROS 2* demo nodes is not installed in *Vulcanexus* distribution by default, but one can easily create a new Docker
image including this feature by using the following Dockerfile:

> .. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/Dockerfile_LAN

Reviewer 2: What have we decided about this? Should we leave it? Are we sure Vulcanexus Ccloud will not have demo_nodes? Can we be sure Vulcanexus Cloud will exist? Could even we be sure we exist? (This is also attempted in a posterior comment)

Reviewer 2: We leave it this way

    :language: Dockerfile

Create the new image and start publishing messages by executing:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build -t vulcanexus-demo-nodes:galactic -f Dockerfile .
    docker run -it --net=host vulcanexus-demo-nodes:galactic -r "ros2 run demo_nodes_cpp talker"

Kubernetes setup
================

> Two different deployments will be used for this example, each in a different |k8s| pod. The |ddsrouter| cloud instance

Reviewer 2: I would add an introduction sentence here. Something like:
In order to communicate our local scenario with a cloud k8s cluster...
In general, I would appreciate somewhere where it is explained the whole scenario of this example. A paragraph or a figure

the previously set up ConfigMap. The cloud router will be deployed with the following settings:

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/ddsrouter.yaml
    :language: yaml

Listener deployment
-------------------
Again, since demo nodes is not installed by default in *Vulcanexus* we have to create a new Docker image adding in this
functionality. The Dockerfile used for the listener will slightly differ from the one utilized to launch a talker in
our LAN, as here we need to specify the port and IP address of the local DS. This can be achieved by using the following
Dockerfile and entrypoint:

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/Dockerfile_cloud
    :language: Dockerfile

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/run.bash
    :language: bash

As before, to build the extended Docker image it suffices to run:

.. code-block:: bash

    docker build -t vulcanexus-demo-nodes:galactic -f Dockerfile .

Now, the listener pod can be deployed by providing the following configuration:

.. literalinclude:: ../../resources/use_cases/vulcanexus_cloud/listener.yaml
    :language: yaml

> Once all these components are up and running, communication should have been established between talker and listener

Reviewer 2: NIT:
Maybe add this paragraph an some other to a las subsection `Conclusion` or something like that.
I will say "you can communicate in WAN each DDS network". "Is possible to route as many times as wanted". "Dynamically add more networks connected to same Router"... Something to close up the use case :thinking: 
What do you think?

Author: IMHO there is not enough content as to create a new section for it, not even after including you suggestions. I would say in the future there would be more complex use cases such as this one covering what you mention.
